[Music]
the megalodon was one of the largest
predators that's ever lived on our
planet
these sharks length could probably reach
60 to 80 feet
and their maximum weight was more than
50 tons that's the combined weight of 10
african elephants the modern sperm whale
grows as long as the megalodon was or
even longer
but the prehistoric shark used to be
heavier the great white shark's maximum
length is just 20 feet
which is still a lot compared to humans
the largest specimens grow to be two and
a half
tons sharks not humans which means the
megalodon was more than 20 times heavier
and three times longer than the great
white
the meg had terrifyingly serrated teeth
they're still found all over the world
in impressive quantities
the largest of them were three times
longer than the great white shark's
teeth
and if you place this tooth on your palm
it would cover it whole
ancient people believe the megalodon's
teeth were huge serpent's tongues
they even called these teeth tongue
stones
it seems there can't be an animal more
terrifying than the ginormous shark
but you might be in for a surprise tons
of incredible and
outright scary creatures live in the
depths of the mariana trench
now there may not be any person who
hasn't heard about the deepest place you
can find on earth
but as they say more people have stepped
on the moon's surface
than have been at the bottom of the
mariana trench
its deepest abyss called the challenger
deep
is more than 36 000 feet deep if you
inverted everest the world's highest
mountain above sea level
and plunged it into this crease there
would still be seven
thousand feet to spare it doesn't mean
the area
is uninhabited though yes this place is
so
foreign people have no clue what bizarre
life forms can be hanging around there
yes there's no sunlight to support life
and the temperatures are just above
freezing
and yes the water pressure is almost a
thousand times more
crushing than at the surface that's
enough to squash most living creatures
and human-made objects but some monsters
just don't care about the lack of food
and light or seemingly unbearable
conditions
for example how about this nightmarish
creature
the most prominent feature of the angry
looking deep sea angler fish
is its dorsal spine worn only by females
by
the way it protrudes above their mouth
and resembles a fishing rod
on its tip there's a lure a luminous
flesh
that baits prey the angler fish has such
a big mouth
and his body is so pliable that it can
swallow animals
twice its own size when the light
becomes a rare and valuable thing
animals have to evolve unusual features
to survive
that's how the barrel eye fish ended up
with a transparent head
and two super sensitive barrel shaped
eyes they're often pointed upward
allowing the fish to see its prey the
frilled shark
looks like an overgrown eel and has
gills lined with red
fringe at the edges hence the name the
creature's horrifying mouth
is lined up with 25 rows of razor sharp
backward-facing teeth 300 in total
the shark hovers in the water waiting to
charge at its prey
like a snake the deep sea hatchet fish
has a ridiculously skinny body and large
tubular eyes pointing upward the fish
might look fragile
even the largest specimens reach only 6
inches in length
but it can live at a depth of 5 000 feet
the hatchet fish can also regulate its
glow depending on the amount of light
around
with its protruding flattened snout and
pink colored skin
the goblin shark looks like a visitor
from another planet
the creature's terrifying jaws are
attached to elastic ligaments
when prey comes too close the shark
catapults its mouth
forward to catch it if your mouth could
do the same
you'd be able to eat things dangling
seven inches away from your face
the mariana snail fish is the deepest
fish ever discovered
pink blind and so see-through you can
spot its liver
the creature thrives at 26 000 feet
below the surface
scientists believe the animal's flexible
bones help it withstand the
mind-boggling pressure
they can only guess though not a single
specimen has been caught yet
one of the mariana trenches inhabitants
glows brightly like an electric bulb
that's the deep sea dragon fish it looks
like an upgraded eel
equipped with oversized teeth chemical
processes
inside the fish's body produce an eerie
red glow
this glow is then used to communicate
with other fish
the creature is about six inches long
and can live at an impressive depth of
six thousand feet
where the waters are cold and lightless
the ping pong tree sponge may look like
a beautiful ethereal
lamp but its disappearance is deceptive
this creature with a funny name is a
dangerous carnivorous sponge
living at the depths of nearly nine
thousand feet
the soft looking balls are covered in
minuscule hook-shaped spikes
can we say velcro they trap careless sea
inhabitants
and consume them which looks as if the
prey simply melts away on their
translucent globes
ew even though zombie worms grow to be
two inches at the most
they can break down the most massive
creatures so strong the acid they
produce is
their feathery appearance makes the
worms look like a plant
but the truth is these creatures munch
on rock hard bones
of the world's largest animals such as
whales
a tiny bizarre jellyfish lives in the
mariana trench
at a depth of more than 2500 feet
it's around one inch in diameter and has
about fifteen hundred
tiny wispy tentacles unlike many
jellyfish which are transparent
this one has a reddish bell most likely
to mask the glow of the microscopic
animals
the jellyfish munches on bizarre
deep sea cucumbers are bigger than their
shallow water relatives
and have been spotted at a depth of 35
feet these creatures spend most of their
time on the sea floor
but if they have to escape predators
they can swim away
deep sea cucumbers have bright purplish
coloring
tiny feet and tentacles that surround
its mouth
the telescope octopus drifts at a depth
of more than 6500 feet
unlike other octopuses that prefer
hanging around near the seafloor
its body is almost entirely transparent
and there is a filmy webbing between its
tentacles
the octopus also has protruding
telescope-like eyeballs
they rotate and provide the animal with
impressive peripheral vision
the comb jelly is a stunning oval
creature with eight rows of
teeny paddling plates that look like
combs
when the jelly swims these plates
disperse light
which creates the trademark rainbow
effect the comb jelly has been roaming
the oceans for at least
500 million years and despite its name
the creature has little in common with
jellyfish these species
aren't even genetically related the
tripod fish
adapted to the almost complete darkness
of the mariana trench
by abandoning its vision this creature
has super long
feathery fins that allow it to perch on
the seafloor
the fish has to rely on vibration and
touch descends prey
when it does the tripod fish uses its
fins as
hands to transport food directly into
its mouth
as for the owl fish it has giant eyes
that catch even the faintest glimmers of
lime
and those are scarce at a depth of
almost 22 000 feet
that's how deep this creature can live
hard
shell shrimp-like creatures called
amphipods
can live at 33 000 feet below the
surface
the largest of them grow up to 12 inches
long
their exoskeletons are made of calcium
carbonate
interestingly this substance dissolves
if you go deeper than fifteen thousand
feet
the pressure is too great and the
temperature too low
but amphipods have a protective shield
made of
aluminum not all octopuses have a
bulbous body with eight long
dangling arms the dumbo octopus
the deepest dwelling octopus known to
people is nothing like that
this umbrella-like creature can easily
thrive at a depth of thirteen
thousand feet wiggly eyes puckered mouth
and a 12-inch long body but don't fall
for its cuteness
the critter is not only carnivorous but
also prefers to swallow its prey whole
the champagne vent that produces liquid
carbon dioxide
is something you can only see in the
mariana trench
amoebas living there have to adapt to
survive
while regular ones are teeny
single-celled organisms
the mariana trench amoebas grow to be
four inches across
that's enormous for this kind of
creature they also have been spotted at
a depth of
six and a half miles but then
how about the megalodon is it possible
the gigantic shark is still
hiding in the depths of the mariana
trench
unlikely first of all there isn't enough
food there for such a huge creature
deep sea fish would be too small to even
rate as a snack for the mag
plus the megalodon is a warm water
species
immense pressure and cold waters of the
mariana trench
wouldn't be to its liking so can't take
the pressure huh